+++
title = "Week Notes: 26"
description = "Week notes #26: July 20 -- July 26"
date = 2022-07-28T20:23:00+03:00

draft = false

[taxonomies]
tags = ["weekly-reviews"]
+++

Here's an interesting quote I saw from someone's mail signature:

> Disinformation flourishes because many people care deeply about injustice but very few check the facts.


## Free and Open Source (FOSS) Work {#free-and-open-source--foss--work}

-   Reviewed and merged [#96](https://github.com/genenetwork/genenetwork3/pull/96) - some enhancements with a rust re-write of some correlations work.
    Not perfect, but it seems to work.
-   Submitted a patchset for parsing some csv files that contain data from experiments.
    The end-goal is to have a generalized way of inputting this data inside GN2 [lmdb+SQL+RDF].
    Initially, a lot of this work had been exploratory; working out what that data means and how typically people in labs collect data and how that fits into the GN2 infrastracture.
    The reviews - code - were really useful: avoid mutations when you can - let it be a last resort; and some scheme gotchas like _use `match` in favour of car, cdr and friends_.
-   I've committed to writing GN2/3 (and any other GN-related project) every day and seek feedback.
    This will help me avoid rabbit holes, and also force me to prioritise what I work on.
    Over the weekends, I'll be hacking on write-ups wrt my proposal which is strongly coupled to my work in GN.


## Grad School {#grad-school}

-   Did and submitted some assignment in good time.
-   Had our last Dissertation Seminars class.
    Ahead of the class, I handed in my proposal.
    You can read it [here](https://git.genenetwork.org/bonfacemunyoki/dissertation/commit/2481cbd8c8117d410878075558d11f10faac066d).
    I'm awaiting feedback for this.
    I hope to get an official supervisor from Strathmore University soon.


## Long Form Reading {#long-form-reading}

Didn't do any much reading :(


## Personal &amp; Miscellaneous {#personal-and-miscellaneous}

-   In one of my evenings, I got invited to the Nairobi Garage at Karen for an after-office hours hangout.
    The space is quite huge and scenic.
    I got to meet interesting people.
-   Went to the Nairobi planetorium with some friends.
    Afterwards, we hanged out at some Japanese food space.
-   My partner came back from their (Coast) trip.
-   During a dear one's birthday [after-work/school hours], I went to some joint close the Nairobi Garage.
    Accidentally bumped into old-school hip-hop and matatu-graffiti artists.


## Link Roundup {#link-roundup}

-   [Notorious ‘Global Terror’ Boss Escaped in Mass Prison Break, Jail Officials Say](https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/notorious-global-terror-boss-escaped-in-mass-prison-break-jail-officials-say/ar-AAZkgE4)
-   [[EULOGY] Thomas Lord was an early (or the first?) maintainer of guile](https://berkeleydailyplanet.com/issue/2022-06-26/article/49837)
-   [Is It Ever a Good Thing to Use a Nonfree Program? - GNU Project - Free Software Foundation](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/is-ever-good-use-nonfree-program.html)
