---
categories: ["rant", "dev"]
title: "2017 11 14 Dev Rant"
date: 2017-11-14T18:51:24+03:00
description: "A random rant after reading some email"
draft: true
tags: ["rant", "dev"]
title: "Random rant"
---

These past few weeks have been weird. Having finished: "Thinking in Systems: A Primer" by Donella Meadows, I've been weirdly seeing the world in terms of systems. I'm now weirdly seeing everything(roughly) in my life in terms of systems. I've become more contemplative and forgiving to other's(and myself) shortcomings. This post is however not about systems, it's about ranting.

Imagine if you did a project in over 6 months, one that would typically take you 1 to 2 weeks tops. Well I'm in such a situation now. I've been building a static website for well over 6 months! In the initial first few weeks, I was tasked with building some certificate that would be given to users who completed some course. Well, easy you might say. It turned out to not be so easy as I thought. Initially I was told to "convert" the certificate into a HTML document which I promptly did(within a week!) Tests were(initially) done by clicking the "print" button on the browser. They needed the "printed certificate" to work well across ALL browsers(I pointed out that rendering a PDF on the client side is a bad idea; No one told me they used server-side rendering).

After a bunch of back and forth e-mails, I'm told that the devs used a server-side PDF rendering tool(wkhtmltopdf) on a laravel plugin that ran on webkit. Why was I freaking told to make all this stuff work in all browsers in the first place? Did you not understand when I complained that rendering a document on the client-side is a bad idea? For the non-technical readers, client-side PDF rendering means that a PDF is rendered by your browser(be it Firefox, chrome, IE, Safari, etc etc). Server-side PDF rendering means that the PDF is rendered by some other program that runs in the server.

I went to all the trouble of reading some docs and ensuring that I used supported CSS constructs. What follows is a barrage of complaint emails telling me that nothing freaking works! I scratch my head in vain to figure out the problem only to go meet up with the dev to, I shit you not, *clear his cache*. Right about now, I'm on edge(having been told to talk to the Product Manager to sort things out). It sucks when there are "deadlines" to beat and "you" happen to be the "bottleneck".

I feel that during this time I came off as some lazy fuck who takes his time to do his work. And similarly to me, said dev came off as someone who does not know his shit(no offense though). I admit that I did not handle the mess-up quite well. I kept quiet, which might have come off as patronizing. Looking back, perhaps I should have tried harder to build rapport or something. Small things like this go a long way to getting things done.

Anyway, back to the website. My original goal for this whole project was to build a minimal website(in terms of file sizes), use a comprehensive naming-scheme, automate trivial tasks, and modularise things. My motivation was to make things easy to integrate into other platforms(like maybe vue, laravel, etc etc), easy to maintain, and make extending the website easier. I chose frameworks that were light and easy to pick up. I wanted to build this thing as if my future self 15 years from now would be tasked with maintaining this(my future and current self would be totally different people). My goals were noble(they still are).

Building the website was fun for me. Browser compatibility and responsiveness were a huge issue though. What I found really hard to do was viewed by other people in my really small team easy to do. There was a lesson there to be learnt: Don't design things you can't implement. Anyway, a huge drawback in this whole process was communication(something that had been improved recently). Say I make something and show it to you; but you respond in 2 weeks. This causes some very weird oscillations in feedback and change implementation. This is pretty much what happened for the better part of the the website making process. I get that people are "busy" with "more important stuff". That should however not come with the added expense of labelling some "dude" as "hard to work with" or some other similar sentiment. FYI, some photos we were supposed to take were not taken. Why? We requested severally for the photographer dude to be given a date for a shoot for the longest time; but clearly no response was given. Finalising the website did however bring the whole "photos" thing up and guess what? "You guys are in charge of that", was the vibe given.

Anywho, over this past weekend, I've been swamped with tonnes of things. I helped organise some book club event at Charlie's Bistro. I also absorbed the shock of the loss of my former swim coach(may he rip). I've also been working on some really cool things: some interactive playable post on tribalism, some open-source project management software(I'm working on the UI/ UX part), and some other crowd-funding software(I'm curious to see how this one goes). I forgot to change one feature that was requested on Friday which I've just remembered now(It'll take me an hour though). I just received some email "requesting the way forward". I'm kinda lost for words for there.

Perhaps I should just walk away. Perhaps not. Right now I dunno. I'll see how stuff works out though. Perhaps I need to shift my perspective and see things from a different angle. Perhaps not.

Well that has been one long rant. For myself, I really don't care about shitloads of stuff. I want to continue learning new stuff, stuff that's really cool(to me). Right now I'm teaching myself some quite interesting things: 2D animation using the canvas element, networking principles, some low-level OS things, DSP things, and mechanical stuff. I've been reading some dude's notes on "Feynmans lectures on Mathematical Methods". I want to keep doing stuff like this, it makes me happy. This rant has been "therapeutic" to me. I hope there's a wide smirk on my future self reading this.

Now I can go on doing things I like doing and deal with any thing random that comes up.
